Recursion

In your own words, what is recursion? 
-Recursion is any function that calls itself within the function definition.
Why is it necessary to have a base case?
-The base case breaks the chain of recursion, so it's sometimes also called the "terminating case".



Graphs

What is a graph?
How is a graph different from a tree?
Give an example of something that would be good to model with a graph.
Performance of Different Data Structures

Fill in the missing spots in the chart with the correct runtimes. Do this by reasoning through how the data structures work, NOT by looking up the solution. Add-R means add to the right/end/top and Add-L means add to the left/beginning/bottom. There are X’s in the spots where that operation doesn’t make sense for that data structure (for instance, you can’t index a stack, or pop from the end of a queue). We’ve provided the first few answers for you.

Fill in the runtimes for the following actions for the table below:

Data Structure  Index   Search  Add-R   Add-L   Pop-L   Pop-R
Python List (Array) O(1)    O(n)    O(1)             
Linked List                      
Doubly-Linked List                       
Queue (as Array)    X   X       X       X
Queue (as LL or DLL)    X   X       X       X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL)    X   X       X   X    
Deque (as DLL)  X   X                
Index: Find an item in the structure when you know its position
Search: Find an item in the structure when you know its data
Add(R/L): Set a key in set/dictionary or add node to tree
Pop(R/L): Remove a key or node
Fill in Runtime and Memory:

The answers for dictionary have been provided; you should fill in the rest:

Data Structure  Get Add Delete  Iterate Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)   O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    medium
Set (Hash Map)                   
Binary Search Tree                   
Tree                     
Get: Find an item in the structure
Add: Set a key in set/dictionary or add node to tree
Delete: Remove a key or node
Iterate: Find next item in data structure
Memory: Relative to data, how much memory is used? (Choices: a little, medium, or a lot)
Sorting

Describe in words how the Bubble Sort algorithm works.
Describe in words how the Merge Sort algorithm works.
Describe in words how the Quick Sort algorithm works.
